We invite submissions to the 1st Conference on Language Modeling/Models
ðŸ™‚ (CoLM).

**Key dates** **(**[Timeline Planning]{.underline}**)**

The planned dates are as follow:

-   Abstract submission: Feb 2, 2024 (Anywhere on Earth)

-   Submission date: Feb 12, 2024 (Anywhere on Earth)

-   Supplementary material submission deadline: Feb 19, 2024 (Anywhere
    > on Earth)

-   Reviews released: May

-   Author notifications: Jun 19, 2024

**Call for papers:**

We consider a broad range of subject areas focused on language modeling
for the first iteration of CoLM. We consider the term "language model"
in the broadest way. A non-exhaustive list of topics of interests
includes:

1.  All about **alignment**: fine-tuning, instruction-tuning,
    > reinforcement learning (with human feedback), prompt tuning, and
    > in-context alignment

2.  All about **data**: pre-training data, alignment data, and synthetic
    > data --- via manual or algorithmic analysis, curation, and
    > generation

3.  All about **evaluation**: benchmarks, simulation environments,
    > scalable oversight, evaluation protocols and metrics, human and/or
    > machine evaluation

4.  All about **societal implications**: bias, equity, misuse, jobs,
    > climate change, and beyond

5.  All about **safety**: security, privacy, misinformation, adversarial
    > attacks and defenses

6.  **Science of LMs**: scaling laws, fundamental limitations, emergent
    > capabilities, demystification, interpretability, complexity,
    > training dynamics, grokking

7.  **Greener LMs**: distillation, compression, quantization, sample
    > efficient methods, memory efficient methods

8.  **Learning algorithms** for LMs: learning, *un*learning,
    > meta-learning, model mixing methods

9.  **Inference algorithms** for LMs: decoding algorithms, reasoning
    > algorithms, search algorithms, planning algorithms

10. **Human mind, brain, philosophy and LMs:** cognitive science,
    > neuroscience, linguistics, psycholinguistics or philosophical
    > perspectives on LMs

11. LMs for **everyone**: multi-linguality, low-resource languages,
    > vernacular languages, multiculturalism, value pluralism

12. LMs and **the world**: factuality, retrieval-augmented LMs,
    > knowledge models, commonsense reasoning, and world models

13. LMs and **interactions**: interactive learning, multi-agents
    > learning, continual learning

14. LMs with **tools and code**: integration with tools and APIs,
    > LM-driven software engineering

15. LMs on **diverse domains**: LMs on multimodal data, robotics, code,
    > math, chemistry, medicine, education, and beyond

**Review Process**

Submissions will be double blind: reviewers cannot see author names when
conducting reviews, and authors cannot see reviewer names. This means
that the submission must not contain acknowledgements or any link (e.g.,
github) that would reveal authors' identity.

We will use OpenReview to manage submissions. The reviews and author
responses will not be public initially. Submissions under review will be
visible only to their assigned program committee. We will not be
soliciting comments from the general public during the reviewing
process. Anyone who plans to submit a paper as an author or a co-author
will need to create (or update) their OpenReview profile by the full
paper submission deadline. The information entered in the profile is
critical for ensuring that conflicts of interest are handled properly.\
\
The program will include oral presentations and posters of accepted
papers. Authors can revise their paper as many times as needed up to the
paper submission deadline. Changes to the paper will not be allowed
while the paper is being reviewed. During the discussion phase (between
area chairs, reviewers and authors), edits will again be allowed; a
[[pdfdiff]{.underline}](https://github.com/cascremers/pdfdiff) will be
done against the submission at the paper submission deadline. Area
chairs and reviewers reserve the right to ignore changes that are
significant from the original scope of the paper.\
\
Accepted papers will be made public after decisions are made.
Discussions between reviewers and program committee members and with the
authors of accepted papers will be made public. Author lists of rejected
papers will not be published.

**Ethics review\
**Reviewers and ACs may flag submissions for ethics review. Flagged
submissions will be sent to an ethics review committee for comments.
Comments from ethics reviewers will be considered by the primary
reviewers and AC as part of their deliberation. They will also be
visible to authors, who will have an opportunity to respond. Ethics
reviewers do not have the authority to reject papers, but in extreme
cases papers may be rejected by the program chairs on ethical grounds,
regardless of scientific quality or contribution.

**Submission Instructions**

Authors are asked to submit paper abstracts by the abstract submission
deadline of **February 2, 2024**. Please note that no changes on the
authors and their orders can be made after the abstract submission
deadline. Also please make sure that all authors have an OpenReview
profile with the latest information. Abstracts submitted by the abstract
submission deadline must be genuine, placeholder or duplicate abstracts
will be removed.

The full paper submission deadline is **February 12, 2024**. Abstracts
and papers must be submitted using the conference submission system at:
**\<URL\>**. The submission site will be open on **\<DATE\>**.

**Paper length**

There will be a strict upper limit of 9 pages for the main text of the
submission, with unlimited additional pages for citations. **This page
limit applies to both the initial and final camera ready version.**

-   Authors may use as many pages of appendices (after the bibliography)
    > as they wish, but reviewers are not required to read the appendix.

-   *Authors can add an* *optional ethics statement to the paper; it
    > will not count toward the page limit, but should not be more than
    > 1 page.* (see Author

-   *Authors can add an optional* *reproducibility statement as well,
    > which will not count toward the page limit, but should not be more
    > than 1 page.*

-   *The optional acknowledgment will not count toward the page limit,
    > but should not be more than 1 page.*

**Style files and Templates**

To prepare your submission to CoLM 2024, please use the LaTeX style
files provided at:

[[https://github.com/CoLM-org/Template/raw/master/CoLM2023.zip]{.underline}](https://github.com/CoLM-org/Template/raw/master/CoLM2023.zip)

Authors are strongly encouraged to participate in the public discussion
of their paper, as well as of any other paper submitted to the
conference. Submissions and reviews are both anonymous. For detailed
instructions about the format of the paper, please visit **\<URL\>**

**Code of Conduct**

[[Code of
Conduct]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iIbwm2Rk1W767_Eua3CUKY7s7cBIOZwuOlHkAGayo9g/edit)

All CoLM participants, including authors, are required to adhere to the
CoLM code of conduct
([[https://colmweb.org/CodeOfConduct]{.underline}](https://colmweb.org/CodeOfConduct)).
More detailed guidance for authors, reviewers, and all other
participants will be made available in due course, and participation
will require acknowledging and adhering to the provided guidelines.
